Work on solution for paths of claims (#5)
vcstuff/sd-jwt-vc-types: draft-fett-oauth-sd-jwt-vc-types.md

# Claim Metadata {#ClaimMetadata}

The `claims` property is an array of objects containing information about
particular claims for displaying and validating the claims.

> The object MAY contain an object for each claim that is supported by the type.

Reviewer: don't you mean array here? 
```suggestion
The array MAY contain an object for each claim that is supported by the type.
```

> The object MAY contain an object for each claim that is supported by the type.
> The property value MUST be an object containing the following properties:

Reviewer: I've read this bit several times and it just doesn't seem right (i.e., "object MAY contain an object" wouldn't be valid JSON and I don't think is what you are trying to say anyway, and with "property value MUST be an object" - there's no property value to be an object at this level). Here is an attempt to adjust the words to say what I think you were trying to say:

```suggestion
The array MAY contain an object for each claim that is supported by the type.
Each object contains the following properties:
```

  described in (#ClaimSelectiveDisclosureMetadata). This property is OPTIONAL.

## Claim Path {#ClaimPath}

The `path` property MUST be a non-empty array of strings, `null` values, or
non-negative integers. It is used to select a particular claim in the credential
or a set of claims. A string indicates that the respective key is to be
selected, a `null` value indicates that all elements of the currently selected
array(s) are to be selected, and a non-negative integer indicates that the
respective index in an array is to be selected.

The following shows a non-normative, simplified example of a credential:

```json
{
  "name": "Arthur Dent",
  "address": {
    "street_address": "42 Market Street",
    "city": "Milliways",
    "postal_code": "12345"
  },
  "degrees": [
    {
      "type": "Bachelor of Science",
      "university": "University of Betelgeuse"
    },
    {
      "type": "Master of Science",
      "university": "University of Betelgeuse"
    }
  ],
  "nationalities": ["British", "Betelgeusian"]
}
```

The following shows examples of `path` values and the respective selected
claims:

- `["name"]`: The claim `name` with the value `Arthur Dent` is selected.

> - `["address", "street_address"]`: The claim `street_address` with the value
>   `42 Market Street` is selected.

Author: ```suggestion
- `["address"]`: The claim `address` with its sub-claims as the value is selected.
- `["address", "street_address"]`: The claim `street_address` with the value
  `42 Market Street` is selected.
```

- `["degrees", null, "type"]`: All `type` claims in the `degrees` array are

>   selected.

Reviewer: I wonder if it might be worthwhile to add one with just `["degrees"]` or `["address"]` to give an example of selecting and providing metadata about the higher level claim of a nested claim structure?

Reviewer: Something like
- `["address"]`: The claim `address` with its sub-claims as the value is selected.

Author: Done!

> - `["nationalities", 1]`: The second nationality is selected.

Reviewer: This example is somewhat different than the others and not high on the list of the parts of a claims structure that I imagine will be selected to provide metadata about. I dunno but wonder if having it detracts more than helps. Just a thought...

Author: It shows a corner case we either need to discuss or prohibit. Not sure if this will actually be useful though.

Reviewer: Yeah, but rather than discuss or prohibit I guess I'm suggesting just don't call attention to :) at least for right now

Author: Ok!
```suggestion
```

In detail, the array is processed from left to right as follows:

 1. Select the root element of the credential, i.e., the top-level JSON object.
 2. Process the `path` components from left to right:
    1. If the `path` component is a string, select the element in the respective
       key in the currently selected element(s). If any of the currently
       selected element(s) is not an object, abort processing and return an
       error. If the key does not exist in any element currently selected,
       remove that element from the selection.
    2. If the `path` component is `null`, select all elements of the currently

>        selected array(s). If any of the currently selected element(s) is not an

Reviewer: The possible plural on "array(s)" here jumped out at me and gave pause. I wonder putting a limit of a max of one `null` element per path array would be a useful simplification (and acceptable limitation)?

Author: I think that something like "select the names of the courses required for all degrees earned" or something like that is a valid use case. I'm also not sure whether such a limitation would make the implementation significantly easier.

Reviewer: I'm also not sure to be honest but it seemed like potentially useful simplification. The "something like ... or something like" case you have doesn't seem invalid but I just don't know if it's necessary either. I'm honestly not sure though so feel free to resolve this comment having considered and dismissed the idea :)
